What is a codec server (#1241)
temporalio/documentation: docs/clusters/how-to-set-up-codec-server.md

---
id: how-to-set-up-codec-server
title: How to Set Up a Codec Server?
sidebar_label: Codec Server
description: Implementation of a remote encryption/decryption server.
---

A [Codec Server](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-codec-server) is an optional feature that can further encode or decode Payloads. This can be done through the [Web UI](/docs/web-ui/how-to-use-a-list-filter-in-the-temporal-web-ui) or with [tctl](/docs/tctl/index).

> A codec HTTP protocol specifies two endpoints to handle Payload encoding and decoding. Implementations must:
> 
> 1. Send and receive Payloads protobuf as JSON.
> 2. Only check the final part of the incoming URL to determine if the request is for /encode or /decode.
> 
> Each platform has a different approach to setting up and running the Codec Server. Follow the steps below to get a Codec Server running on your preferred platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A codec HTTP protocol specifies two endpoints to handle Payload encoding and decoding.
Implementations must do the following:

- Send and receive Payloads protobuf as JSON.
- Check only the final part of the incoming URL to determine whether the request is for /encode or /decode.

Each platform has a different approach to setting up and running the Codec Server.
Follow these steps to get a Codec Server running on your preferred platform.
```

## tctl

Before running a Codec Server, make sure that a Temporal service is running.

Start the codec server:

```bash
go run ./codec-server
```

Pass the encoded Payloads to the codec endpoint:

```bash

> tctl --codec_endpoint 'http://localhost:{PORT}/{namespace}' workflow show --wid codecserver_workflowID

Reviewer: Looks as though we need to add `--codec_endpoint` as a [global modifier](https://docs.temporal.io/tctl/#global-modifiers) in the tctl reference. And if you already have that in the works, more power to you.

Author: I'll keep this in mind. Thanks!

```

## Web UI

> Before running the Temporal service, specify the codec endpoint in the config yaml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before running the Temporal service, specify the codec endpoint in the configuration file.
```

```yaml
codec:
    endpoint: {{ default .Env.TEMPORAL_CODEC_ENDPOINT "{namespace}"}}
```

> Select the button with two arrows in the top right area of the screen. This will bring up the codec endpoint dialog.
> 
> Enter the URL and port number for your codec endpoint. Exit the dialog, go back to the previous page, and refresh the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the button with two arrows in the top right area of the screen.
This action displays the codec endpoint dialog.

Enter the URL and port number for your codec endpoint.
Exit the dialog, go back to the previous page, and refresh the page.
```

---
id: how-to-set-up-codec-server
title: How to set up a Codec Server
sidebar_label: Codec Server
description: Implementation of a remote encryption/decryption server.
---

> The [Codec Server Go sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/tree/main/codec-server) is an example that shows how to decode a Payload that has been encoded so the Payload can be displayed by [tctl](/tctl) and the [Web UI](/web-ui/how-to-use-a-list-filter-in-the-temporal-web-ui).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Codec Server Go sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/tree/main/codec-server) is an example that shows how to decode a Payload that has been encoded so the Payload can be displayed by [tctl](/tctl) and the [Web UI](/web-ui).
```

---
id: how-to-set-up-codec-server
title: How to set up a Codec Server
sidebar_label: Codec Server
description: Implementation of a remote encryption/decryption server.
---

The [Codec Server Go sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/tree/main/codec-server) is an example that shows how to decode a Payload that has been encoded so the Payload can be displayed by [tctl](/tctl) and the [Web UI](/web-ui/how-to-use-a-list-filter-in-the-temporal-web-ui).

A codec HTTP protocol specifies two endpoints to handle Payload encoding and decoding.

Implementations must do the following:

- Send and receive Payloads protobuf as JSON.
- Check only the final part of the incoming URL to determine whether the request is for /encode or /decode.

Each platform has a different approach to setting up the endpoints for the Codec Server. Follow these steps to get a Codec Server running on your preferred platform.

:::note
A Temporal Cluster should already be in operation before starting the Codec Server.
:::

## tctl

[Start up the Codec Server](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/tree/main/codec-server).

> Pass the encoded Payloads to the codec endpoint:

Reviewer 2: The command doesn't pass the Payload, it just configures the endpoint that tctl will use to pass the Payload.

On first read - it suggests the former.

```bash
tctl --codec_endpoint 'http://localhost:{PORT}/{namespace}' workflow show --wid codecserver_workflowID
```

## Web UI

```yaml
codec:
    endpoint: {{ default .Env.TEMPORAL_CODEC_ENDPOINT "{namespace}"}}
```

> The [codec endpoint](/references/ui-configuration#codec) can be specified in the configuration file. It can also be changed during runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [codec endpoint](/references/ui-configuration#codec) can be specified in the configuration file.
It can also be changed during runtime.
```

---
id: how-to-set-up-codec-server
title: How to set up a Codec Server
sidebar_label: Codec Server
description: Implementation of a remote encryption/decryption server.
---

> A [Codec Server](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-codec-server) is an optional feature that can further encode or decode Payloads.
> This can be done through the [Web UI](/docs/web-ui/how-to-use-a-list-filter-in-the-temporal-web-ui) or with [tctl](/docs/tctl/index).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Codec Server Go sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/tree/main/codec-server) is an example that shows how to decode a Payload that has been encoded so the Payload can be displayed by [tctl](/tctl) and the [Web UI](/web-ui/how-to-use-a-list-filter-in-the-temporal-web-ui).
```

A codec HTTP protocol specifies two endpoints to handle Payload encoding and decoding.
Implementations must do the following:

- Send and receive Payloads protobuf as JSON.
- Check only the final part of the incoming URL to determine whether the request is for /encode or /decode.

Each platform has a different approach to setting up and running the Codec Server.
Follow these steps to get a Codec Server running on your preferred platform.

> ## tctl

Reviewer 2: "Configure endpoint" section?

To me, this is about configuring the endpoints for each tool ?
Make that more explicit.

> Before running a Codec Server, make sure that a Temporal service is running.

Reviewer 2: 1 - this is true regardless of tctl or not
2- its a minor point, not one I was expecting to be made several times.
3 - "a Temporal Cluster should already be in operation" - to be accurate - I think the term "Temporal service" won't appear too much in our documentation. :)

Start the codec server:

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: This is covered in the sample.

go run ./codec-server
```

Pass the encoded Payloads to the codec endpoint:

```bash
tctl --codec_endpoint 'http://localhost:{PORT}/{namespace}' workflow show --wid codecserver_workflowID

> ```

Reviewer 2: Great to have this full example command - I think we should also link to the command in the tctl reference.

## Web UI

> Before running the Temporal service, specify the codec endpoint in the configuration file.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't make any sense?

Is it supposed to say "Before running the Temporal Web UI, specify the Codec endpoint"?
In any case, that is not true, because you can update the endpoint in the UI after it is running...
